Basics of CI/CD

Jenkins is the industry standard

CI - Automation the integration of code changes
- - - TESTING HAPPENS HERE

CD - Streamlining deployment processes
- - - Once code changes are tested, the code is delivered in this bucket


Jenkins open-source automation server
- custom pipelines
- manual setup and maintenance which is a PITA for beginners

Automated Testing and Deployment is a big benefit of CICD
Reduces human error, obvs


YAML standards
Human readable data serialisation language
Uses key-value pairs and lists
Nested items: indented with spaces

Github Actions workflows are defined using YAML
Workflows specify events and jobs
Stored in .github/workflows/



Containers are lightweight standalone and executable

Act as isolated environments where applications can run 
consistently regardless of the underlying infra.

They include the necessary components such as code, libraries
and system tools, ensuring that the app runs the same in all
envs.

Unlike traditional VMs, containers share the OS host kernel 
and isolate apps at the process level.

A container might take seconds to spin up instead of a VM.

Docker is the most popular platform for running containers.

The first concept is Images
Lightweight standalone package that contains everything needed
to run an application. Images are readonly templates.

Second concept is Containers
Containers are instances of Docker Images that run as isolated
processes on the host system.

Third concept is Dockerfiles
Simple text file that contains instructions for building a 
Docker image. Installing libs or copying application code.

Commands are 
- docker build > creates an image from a docker file
- docker run > starts a container from an image
- docker stop > stops a running container
- docker ps > lists all running containers

CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT
What is Configuration Management?

Configuration management automates system setup, 
configuration, and maintenance to ensure consistency 
and efficiency across IT infrastructure.

Ansible is used for Configuration Management
YAML-based playbooks for config automation

Playbooks
are yaml files that define a series of tasks to be executed 
on target systems

Modules
Prebuilt functionalities for common tasks like file manipulation or
file installation 

Inventories
Lists of target systems


Ansible workflow:
Write a playbook defining the desired configurations
Specify the target systems in the inventory
Run the playbook


Importance of Monitoring
- Uptime assurance
- Performance
- Issue detection


